---
id: v3.20
title: Version 3.20
---

## Overview

### What is it?

The Simwood Customer API ("Application Programming Interface") is a way for your own back-office systems
and web sites to seamlessly integrate with Simwood and manage your wholesale telephony account and
services.

### What can I do with it?

The API is the preferred way to configure your Simwood services. Everything in the portal can also be
configured via the API (and in some cases the API offers some additional functionality)
Our portal is based on the API, and everything you can do in the portal you can do through the API in your own
code. We’ve deliberately made it this way. The only exception to this is the authentication elements of the
portal, as using your API key to log in on the web would be cumbersome.

### Architecture

Some of our customers follow how we do things with interest - this page is for them.
If you don’t care, you can safely skip it.
The best way to keep up to date with the latest developments behind the scenes is via our blog;
http://blog.simwood.com/
### Web
The v3 API, like its predecessors, is predominantly written in PHP served by nginx. nginx takes care of basic
HTTPS functions but all header generation is done in code. This way the API can be RESTful in its responses.
There is no state maintained in the web-app.
### Databases
As before, many queries are made against MySQL although we have dedicated servers for the API’s use.
These are built for queries and are slaves of masters. We can build additional query servers sideways as
required. Writes are, of course, made against the masters. Increasingly, API requests are served directly from
our underlying REDIS ram-based data stores where possible.
### Middle-ware
This API introduces multiple layers in between the above for performance and scale:
#### Beanstalkd Queues
We use Beanstalkd a lot for internal messaging. In this API where a request is non-trivial and involves
other processes, we’ll simply queue a job.
#### REDIS
REDIS replaced memcached as our caching data store, and is used for much more as it supports a
number of advanced data structures facilitating vastly improved monitoring and real-time
information.
See http://blog.simwood.com/2013/06/real-time-big-data/ for more information.
#### App Servers
We have numerous daemons running monitoring specific queues (pipes in beanstalkd language). One
of the beautiful features of beanstalkd is that it is blocking, i.e. 10 daemons can watch the same pipe
and code will block waiting for a response.
One, and one only, will be given the job when there is one. This avoids polling – meaning this is
extremely efficient and very scalable as we can just spin up as many daemons as required. Further,
release of a job to a daemon is sub-millisecond giving the queueing the performance of direct
requests. Most complicated jobs involve multiple daemons working through a sequence of queues.

## Basic Operations
The Simwood API can be found at the following URI;
https://api.simwood.com/v3/
PLEASE NOTE THAT TLS v1.1 OR HIGHER IS MANDATORY FOR ALL REQUESTS
### Basic GET Requests

A number of end-points in the API can be accessed with a simple GET request and will therefore work in a
browser. Some do not require authentication and are a good place to start and to test connectivity to the API.

Two simple examples are:

https://api.simwood.com/v3/tools/myip - will return your IP address as seen by the API
https://api.simwood.com/v3/tools/time - will return a timestamp from the API

### JSON Output Format
You’ll see that in both above cases the output is JSON, e.g:


``
{"timestamp":1388748052,"rfc":"Fri, 03 Jan 2014 11:20:52 +0000"}
``

JSON (“JavaScript Object Notation”) is used as it’s a lightweight format designed for exchange of data
structures which has an additional advantage of being relatively human readable. All modern languages such
as PHP, ASP, .net, Node, Perl etc can handle JSON structures and convert to/from their native objects or
arrays easily making it the ideal choice for REST APIs.
### “Pretty” JSON
JSON is designed to be machine-readable and as such is sent with minimal whitespace by default however
when developing it is often useful to see the output in a more human-friendly format, you can achieve this
simply by appending `“?pretty=true”` to any endpoint e.g https://api.simwood.com/v3/tools/time?pretty=true
would look like this;

``` 
{
  "timestamp": 1388748052,
  "rfc": "Fri 03 Jan 2014 11:20:52 +0000"
}
```

### Authenticating Requests
Most commands are linked to an account and therefore require authentication.
We use standard Basic Authentication, i.e. your client makes a request, we respond with a 401 response code,
your client replies with the API username and password included.
Your API username and password were provided at the time of creating your Simwood account, if you do not
have these please contact our support team and we’ll be happy to provide you with them.

Note that, at present;

- Your API username and password is not the same as your portal login details
- Your API password is designed to be used programatically, and is typically not memorable
- Your API details allow full access to your account, and must be protected accordingly.
- You cannot, currently, change your API username or password - although our support team are happy to
do so if required (e.g. if your details are lost or you have reason to believe they are compromised)

If you pull up an example URL in your browser it’ll do this for you. For your code, different development
languages will tackle this in different ways but most will ‘just deal with it’ automatically for you.
cURL for example, will just take the username and password as parameters, e.g.:

``curl --user name:password https://api.simwood.com/v3/…``

PHP’s cURL implementation is very similar in that you’d set CURLOPT_USERPWD with [curl_setopt](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.curl-setopt.php).

An example authenticated GET request is:
```
https://api.simwood.com/v3/accounts/{ACCOUNT}/prepay/balance
```

*This example URL will not work directly in a web browser as the {ACCOUNT} placeholder in the above
will need to be replaced with account ID (typically a six digit number)*

Which would return the following

``[{"balance":"12.32","currency":"GBP"}] ``

Adding `?pretty=true` to the end of the URL would give you the same information in the following format;
```
[
  {
      "balance": "12.32",
      "currency":"GBP"
  }
]
```

Both are treated equally by a JSON parser, and are syntactically valid, however the ‘pretty-printed’ version
may be useful for debugging.
Simwood



### PUT and DELETE requests
In the spirit of being REST-ful, many URLs can be acted upon with different methods. The URL does not
change, only the HTTP method used against it. One example of this is number configuration, for example;
```
https://api.simwood.com/v3/numbers/{ACCOUNT}/allocated/{NUMBER}
```

*Again, this will not work as {ACCOUNT} and {NUMBER} need replacing with real data.
{NUMBER} is the e164 representation of the number, e.g. 442031234567.*

`GET` is the default method, accessing the above end-point with a `GET` will return the current configuration of
that number. `PUT` will create the end-point, i.e. allocate the number to your account if it does not exist
already. `DELETE` will remove the end-point, i.e. de-configure and remove the number from your account.
`PUT` is context sensitive and specific uses will be described in greater detail within different commands.
Briefly though, whereas:
```
https://api.simwood.com/v3/numbers/{ACCOUNT}/allocated/{NUMBER}
```

will create a number end-point, i.e. allocate the number but
```
https://api.simwood.com/v3/numbers/{ACCOUNT}/allocated/{NUMBER}/config
```

will configure a number, i.e. write the sent config to it.
`DELETE` works more uniformly but only at the level it operates, e.g.

```
https://api.simwood.com/v3/numbers/{ACCOUNT}/allocated/{NUMBER}
```

will de-configure and remove a number but
```
https://api.simwood.com/v3/numbers/{ACCOUNT}/allocated/{NUMBER}/config
```
will just remove the configuration, leaving the number on your account

Setting the method is language specific and `PUT` and `DELETE` cannot be easily replicated in a browser. Almost
all environments/browsers will default to GET so the chances are if it doesn’t work as you expect you are
using the `GET` method.
For development languages which do not permit all HTTP methods to be used you can pass a hidden
parameter named _method in an HTTP POST or GET and set the method to use in there.
This will override the actual HTTP method used. For example, in an HTTP form you may use:
``<input type="hidden" name="_method" id="_method" value="put" />``


*
 *All modern languages allow HTTP methods to be used correctly, and we would strongly encourage this in preference to setting a _method parameter.*



### POST requests / Reports
`POST` is very similar to `PUT` but is used where one is not updating a specific resource, i.e. requesting reports,
or when creating a new resource
For example, to request a summary of calls and charges for the current day the end-point would be:
```
https://api.simwood.com/v3/accounts/{ACCOUNT}/reports/voice/summary/day/in
```

You would use POST for this request as whilst you are sending a request to the server and the end-point is
fixed, what that end-point represents and what you get back are variable. POST is used for all report type
requests.
The output from such a POST request (which requests a report) will typically be small, i.e.:

```
{"mode":"vsind","date":"2012-01-28","type":"voice_summary","account":"ACCOUNT","format"
:"json","hash":"4e591630fedf4aa149db9874fb33fe23","link":"\/v3\/files\/ACCOUNT\/
4e591630fedf4aa149db9874fb33fe23"}
```



You will note that this is not in fact a summary of today’s charges. It is a hash that uniquely identifies that
report and a link to it. As the return suggests, you can retrieve the actual results with a GET request to
```
https://api.simwood.com/v3/files/{ACCOUNT}/4e591630fedf4aa149db9874fb33fe23.
```
#### But don’t worry...
Whilst is is important to understand the effect a given request method will have, we are somewhat relaxed in
our interpretation of them where possible. DELETE is always DELETE with no alternative but we will accept a
POST instead of a PUT and a GET instead of a POST where possible. You should not assume we will, and
should adhere to the RESTful way, but this flexibility is there if you wish to test behaviour in a browser for
example.

#### Report De-duplication
As described above, when you request a report the return will just contain a link to the results. That link will
be unique to that specific report, i.e. in the above example the hash for today’s summary will be the same with
every request, but only every request `today`. Tomorrow will generate a different hash. If you make multiple
requests for the same report before you retrieve it, duplicates will simply be ignored and the report will only
be run once.

However, once a report has been run, the results await your collection within the next 5 minutes. Further
requests with the same hash will continue to be ignored as long as that report exists. Once the report is
retrieved it will be deleted. Only after a report has been deleted (either by retrieval or expiry), will an identical
report request result in a new report.

`NB` reports expire after 5 minutes, any attempt to access the report after 5 minutes will result in a 404 error,
you should therefore build your application to poll the report URL multiple times as soon as possible after
submitting your request or use the callback URL detailed below.

Hashes are intended to be generated sensibly. For example, a given report for today will always give the same
hash. A different report for today or the same report for tomorrow will give different hashes. Reports on
different numbers will generate different hashes. Further, de-duplication will only apply where previous
results have not been retrieved.

The intention here is to protect the system from the coder who wishes to request a year’s CDRs every second.
He can, but all requests other than the first will be ignored until he retrieves the results. This rather extreme
example is actually real and was a consequence of the way the v2 API paginated results and required clients
to step through them. More than a few customer implementations reached the end of the results and went
into a race condition.

#### Report Retrieval
As shown above, the return from a report request will give a hash and an encoded URL. The hash can be used
to access the results directly, even from another system, using a GET request to, for example:
```
https://api.simwood.com/v3/files/{ACCOUNT}/4e591630fedf4aa149db9874fb33fe23
```
This URL can be polled at a sensible interval as it will simply return a 204 No Content until the report exists.
Once the report does exist, it can be downloaded only once and then will be automatically deleted.
To negate the need for polling, clients may instead wish to specify a ‘callback’ URL with their request. This
should be POSTed as a variable called ‘callback’. The response to the request will be identical as without it but
on successful generation of the report we will make a POST to the URL provided. This will contain a single
HTTP POST variable call ‘payload’ which will contain the report hash in JSON format, e.g.:

```
{"app":"reports","id":"76e7a8102f93c636785ea8432c72e07a","data":null}
```

The client should then GET the report as usual within a maximum of 5 minutes, after which it may expire.
#### Dates in Reports
Most reports can be run for a range or at a specific date. Where omitted they will generally default to today.
Dates are always expressed in MySQL format (YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss), e.g. 2012-01-01 14:30:00
#### File (Report Output) Handling
Unlike many APIs the Simwood API is asynchronous when requesting some complex reports to improve
performance (this is discussed in more detail above) and some POST requests will result in a small response
containing a hash and ‘link’ to a file e.g.
```
{
  "mode":"vsind",
  "date":"2012-01-28",
  "type":"voice_summary",
  "account":"{ACCOUNT}",
  "format":"json",
  "hash":"4e591630fedf4aa149db9874fb33fe23",
  "link":"/v3/files/{ACCOUNT}/4e591630fedf4aa149db9874fb33fe23"
}
```

The functions below are used to retrieve these;

``
/v3/files/{ACCOUNT}
``

|GET|Lists uncollected files on the account                                            |
|:--|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

```
{
"ff98d8d8fdf9dfd178e72b6e6ba207ff" {
"name":"ff98d8d8fdf9dfd178e72b6e6ba207ff",
"content_type":"application/json",
"length":410,
"uri":"/v3/files/ACCOUNT/ff98d8d8fdf9dfd178e72b6e6ba207ff"
}
}
```

``
/v3/files/{ACCOUNT}/{HASH}
``

|GET |Retrieve specific file on account, where HASH is the hash returned when the report was requested. File will be deleted after retrieval.            |
|:--|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|


### API Endpoints
If the above has all made sense, you should need little more than a list of the available end-points and the
HTTP methods they support to get going. This follows and you’ll quickly observe they are hierarchical and
hopefully consistent. The method shown indicates behaviour as described earlier.

Each endpoint is documented below in the following format;

`/v3/URL`

|GET |Explains what happens when the GET method is used                                                             |
|:----|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|POST |Explains what happens when the POST method is used. Will also explain what parameter is used for
|     |*parameter*    - An example GET / POST or PUT parameter                                             |
|     |*anotherparam*  -  Another parameter to be sent by POST                                            |

`Please Note ` - Where example responses are shown in this documentation they may be reformatted to be
more easily human-readable, the actual response will have escaped slashes (e.g. / replaced with \/) and not
include any excess white space.

| |The following conventions are used in describing the URL or other parameters|
|:--------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------|
|{ACCOUNT}   |      Where a word is capitalised and enclosed by curly braces { } it must be replaced with the appropriate information e.g. {ACCOUNT} or {IP} |
| [ on \| off ] | Where two or more words are separated by the pipe character \| and enclosed within square brackets [ ] these are ‘either or’ options. e.g. a url with the form /latest/[1\|5\|10] allows you to specify any of the following 3 URLs;<br/> /latest/1 <br/> /latest/5 <br/> /latest/10 <br/> Arbitrary values (e.g. /latest/15) are not supported |
| URLs | The URLs are shown without the leading https://api.simwood.com/ which must be inserted before the /v3/ when making any API call.  |
| paramname | Parameters are shown in italics, these are passed by GET, POST or PUT in the request and do not form part of the URI (except in the case of the GET request, when they are part of the query string after the ? mark) |
| paramname[] | Parameters with square brackets at the end are different and can be thought of as Array Parameters. These can be passed multiple times but even if only one item is being included you must include the [] on the end. For compatibility with some languages (e.g. PHP with Curl) an integer value can be between the square brackets e.g the following two examples are equivalent; <br/> `?param[]=apple&param[]=orange&param[]=pear` <br/> `?param[0]=apple&param[1]=orange&param[2]=pear` |













#### GET

*Retrieving* a representation of a resource is as easy as GETting its URI. A simple way to test this is to type the URI of the desired resource into the address bar of your web browser.

##### Response Codes

| Status Code | Type              | Description                                                                                  |
|:------------|:------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 200         | Ok                | Your request was successful and the response body contains the representation.               |
| 304         | Not Modified      | The client's cached representation is still valid (conditional GET).                         |
| 401         | Unauthorized      | The credentials supplied are invalid, or insufficient to access the requested resource.      |
| 404         | Not Found         | No resource was found at the requested location.                                             |
| 429         | Too Many Requests | You have reached your request limit for the current time window.                             |
| 500         | Server Error      | Something went wrong our end. If the problem persists please contact support@sipcentric.com. |

#### POST

The POST method is used for *creating* resources. The representation of the object to be created should be contained within the request body, and the `Content-Type` header should be set according to the format you are sending, e.g. `application/xml` or `application/json`. See [Response Formats](#response-formats) for the formats we can accept.

##### Response Codes

| Status Code | Type               | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
|:------------|:-------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 201         | Created            | The request was successful and the response body contains a representation of the newly-created resource. The `Location` header will also be populated with the resource URI. |
| 400         | Bad Request        | There is a problem with your request and/or your data has failed validation. See the response body for more details.                                                          |
| 401         | Unauthorized       | The credentials supplied are invalid, or insufficient to create the resource.                                                                                                 |
| 404         | Not Found          | The location to which you are POSTing does not exist.                                                                                                                         |
| 405         | Method Not Allowed | The specified resource cannot be POSTed to.                                                                                                                                   |
| 429         | Too Many Requests  | You have reached your request limit for the current time window.                                                                                                              |
| 500         | Server Error       | The server has responded with an error. If the problem persists please contact support@sipcentric.com.                                                                        |

#### PUT

You should use the PUT method to *update* or *modify* resources. A representation of the object and its updated properties should be included in the body, and the `Content-Type` header set according to the format of the representation you are sending. See [Response Formats](#response-formats) for the formats we can accept.

##### Response Codes

| Status Code | Type               | Description                                                                                                          |
|:------------|:-------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 200         | Ok                 | The resource was successfully updated and the response body contains its new representation.                         |
| 400         | Bad Request        | There is a problem with your request and/or your data has failed validation. See the response body for more details. |
| 401         | Unauthorized       | The credentials supplied are invalid, or insufficient to update the resource.                                        |
| 404         | Not Found          | The resource you are trying to update does not exist.                                                                |
| 405         | Method Not Allowed | The specified resource is read-only and does not allow updates.                                                      |
| 429         | Too Many Requests  | You have reached your request limit for the current time window.                                                     |
| 500         | Server Error       | The server has responded with an error. If the problem persists please contact support@sipcentric.com.               |

#### DELETE

Finally, where supported, resources may be *removed* using the DELETE method. Please be careful though, as deleted resources cannot be restored afterwards!

##### Response Codes

| Status Code | Type               | Description                                                                                                     |
|:------------|:-------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 204         | Deleted            | The resource was successfully deleted. The response body will be empty as there is no representation to return. |
| 401         | Unauthorized       | The credentials supplied are invalid, or insufficient to delete the resource.                                   |
| 404         | Not Found          | The resource you are trying to remove does not exist.                                                           |
| 405         | Method Not Allowed | The specified resource is read-only or not removable.                                                           |
| 429         | Too Many Requests  | You have reached your request limit for the current time window.                                                |
| 500         | Server Error       | The server has responded with an error. If the problem persists please contact support@sipcentric.com.          |

#### Method Overloading

Not all HTTP libraries support the PUT and DELETE methods. However, it is possible to achieve the same outcome by using POST and including a `_method` query parameter in the request URL, with a value of either PUT or DELETE. For example, take the following DELETE request:

```
DELETE /customers/8425/numbers/44675
```

If your chosen library only supports GET or POST, this request can easily be simulated as follows:

```
POST /customers/8425/numbers/44675?_method=DELETE
```

### Authentication

Authentication to the Sipcentric API occurs via [HTTP Basic Authentication](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_authentication_scheme), with the same credentials as you would use to login to the web portal. Your credentials should be provided with every request.

Most HTTP libraries will handle Basic Authentication details automatically. To do it manually, include an `Authorization` header with a value of `Basic <credentials>` in every request, where “credentials” is a Base64-encoded version of the string "username:password". For example:

```
Authorization: Basic QWxhZGRpbjpvcGVuIHNlc2FtZQ==
```

As all Sipcentric accounts can have unlimited users, you may want to create a user specifically for the API, or for an application that uses the API.

Consumers of the API must authenticate at one of three levels:

- Extension User
- Company Admin
- Reseller

### Response Formats

We generally send (and receive) representations of objects in [JSON](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON) format. There may be exceptions (in the case of sound files, for example), but these will be highlighted in the documentation specific to those resources.

For each request you should specify the `Accept` header, which we will evaluate and where possible, return a representation according to your preferred choice. For example:

```
Accept: application/json
```

Although including the `Accept` header in your request is the preferred method of specifying your desired representation format, it may not always be possible to include this header.

If an `Accept` header cannot be specified, you can append the desired type to the request URL instead, as in the example below.

```html
https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/1234/calls.json
```

This will override any `Accept` headers that have been added by your client and, in the above example, return a JSON representation.

### List Resources

Some resources are in fact collections of other resources. For example, a list of all telephone
numbers assigned to a particular customer account can be found by querying (GETting) the
“phonenumbers” sub-resource. Similarly, new numbers can be added to the collection by POSTing to it.

#### Pagination

In some cases, lists of items can be quite long. To preserve bandwidth and reduce response time,
lists are instead divided across multiple pages. To assist with pagination, a list resource will always
contain the following information:

| Property   | Description                                    |
|:-----------|:-----------------------------------------------|
| totalItems | The total number of items in the collection.   |
| pageSize   | The number of items per page.                  |
| page       | The current page number.                       |
| items[]    | The items included in the current page.        |
| prevPage   | A link to the previous page (if it exists).    |
| nextPage   | A link to the next page (again, if it exists). |


Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/1234/phonenumbers?pageSize=5&page=2
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems": 21,
  "pageSize": 5,
  "page": 2,
  "items": [
    {
      "type": "did",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/1234/phonenumbers/2468",
      ...
    },
    {
      "type": "did",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/1234/phonenumbers/1365",
      ...
    },
    {
      "type": "did",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/1234/phonenumbers/4775",
      ...
    },
    {
      "type": "did",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/1234/phonenumbers/2164",
      ...
    },
    {
      "type": "did",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/1234/phonenumbers/3647",
      ...
    }
  ],
  "prevPage": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/1234/phonenumbers?pageSize=5&page=1",
  "nextPage": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/1234/phonenumbers?pageSize=5&page=3"
}

```

#### Query Parameters

Some list resources will have specific parameters that can be used to filter results (see individual resource
documentation for details). However as a minimum, all list resources support the following query
parameters:

| Parameter | Description                                              |
|:----------|:---------------------------------------------------------|
| pageSize  | The number of items per page (default 20 / maximum 200). |
| page      | The page number to return (default 1).                   |


For example, to limit results to 10 per page and return the second page:

`GET /customers/8425/phonenumbers?pageSize=10&page=2`


### Data Formats

#### Dates & Times

All dates and times are formatted according to the ISO 8601 profile. For example:

`2012-09-26T13:47:28Z`


## Customer Resources

### Customers

| Resource Information           |             |
|:-------------------------------|:------------|
| Location                       | /customers  |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes         |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour   |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth  |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get) |
| JSON Representation(s)         | customer    |
| Additional Formats             | None        |

The customers resource is the starting point for most account-level operations. Each customer instance represents an account on the Sipcentric platform - it encapsulates a single company/PBX and all of its sub-resources.

```exampleRepresentation

{
  "type": "customer",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "company": "Bloggs co",
  "firstName": "Fred",
  "lastName": "Bloggs",
  "telephone": "07557000000",
  "email": "contact@fredbloggs.com",
  "address1": "60 Cleveland St",
  "address2": "Fitzrovia",
  "city": "London",
  "postcode": "W1T 4JZ",
  "country": "GB",
  "properties": {
		"testid" : "abc123",
    "test2" : "GB134324"
  },
  "links": {
    "callBundles" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/callbundles",
    "recordings": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings",
    "phoneBook": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook",
    "timeIntervals": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals",
    "endpoints": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints",
    "phoneNumbers": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonenumbers",
    "sms": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sms",
    "creditStatus": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/creditstatus",
    "calls": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/calls",
    "sounds": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sounds",
    "outgoingCallerIds": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/outgoingcallerids"
  }
}
```

| Type: *customer*               |                                                                                                |
| :----------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Property**                   | **Description**                                                                                |
| type <br /> *required*         | The resource type ("customer"). <br /> *String*                                                |
| uri <br /> *read-only*         | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                          |
| created <br /> *read-only*     | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                       |
| company <br /> *required*      | Name of the company on the account.  <br /> *String*                                           |
| firstName <br /> *required*    | Primary contact first name.  <br /> *String*                                                   |
| lastName <br /> *required*     | Primary contact last name.  <br /> *String*                                                    |
| telephone <br /> *required*    | Primary contact telephone number.  <br /> *String*                                             |
| email <br /> *required*        | Primary contact email address.  <br /> *String*                                                |
| address1 <br /> *required*     | Primary location address line 1.  <br /> *String*                                              |
| address2 <br /> *optional*     | Primary location address line 2.  <br /> *String*                                              |
| city <br /> *required*         | Primary location town/city.  <br /> *String*                                                   |
| postcode <br /> *required*     | Primary location postcode.  <br /> *String*                                                    |
| country <br /> *required*      | Primary location country. <br /> *String*                                                      |
| properties[] <br /> *optional* | A collection of customisable properties that could be used to store varying ids <br /> *Array* |
| links[] <br /> *read-only*     | A collection of links to related sub-resources.  <br /> *Array*                                |


#### List customers

`GET /customers`

Lists all customer accounts to which the authenticating user has access. When authenticated as an extension user or a company admin, this will only return their own account. However, when authenticated as a reseller, all customer accounts owned by that reseller will be returned.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers
```


```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems": 1,
  "pageSize": 1,
  "page": 1,
  "items": [
    {
      "type": "customer",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
      "company": "Bloggs co",
      "firstName": "Fred",
      "lastName": "Bloggs",
      "telephone": "07557000000",
      "email": "contact@fredbloggs.com",
      "address1": "60 Cleveland St",
      "address2": "Fitzrovia",
      "city": "London",
      "postcode": "W1T 4JZ"
    }
  ]
}
```


#### Get customer

`GET /customers/{customerId}`

Returns a single customer instance, providing the user is allowed access to that customer. In the case of company admin/extension users, the special ID of `me` can also be used to return the account to which the current user belongs.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/me
```


```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type": "customer",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "company": "Bloggs co",
  "firstName": "Fred",
  "lastName": "Bloggs",
  "telephone": "07557000000",
  "email": "contact@fredbloggs.com",
  "address1": "60 Cleveland St",
  "address2": "Fitzrovia",
  "city": "London",
  "postcode": "W1T 4JZ",
  "links": {
    "callBundles" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/callbundles",
    "recordings": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings",
    "phoneBook": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook",
    "timeIntervals": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals",
    "endpoints": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints",
    "phoneNumbers": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonenumbers",
    "sms": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sms",
    "creditStatus": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/creditstatus",
    "calls": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/calls",
    "sounds": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sounds",
    "outgoingCallerIds": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/outgoingcallerids"
  }
}
```


### Phone Book

| Resource Information           |                                                                              |
|:-------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Location                       | /customers/{customerId}/phonebook                                            |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes                                                                          |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour                                                                    |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth                                                                   |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get) <br /> [POST](#post) <br /> [DELETE](#delete) <br /> [PUT](#put) |
| JSON Representation(s)         | phonebookentry                                                               |
| Additional Formats             | None                                                                         |

The phonebook sub-resource allows users to read and organize an account's shared phone book entries. Each entry is represented by a `phonebookentry`.

```exampleRepresentation
{
  "type" : "phonebookentry",
  "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook/773",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:38:00.000+0000",
  "name" : "Sipcentric",
  "phoneNumber" : "01212854400",
  "speedDial" : 5
}
```

| Type: *phonebookentry*        |                                                                          |
|:------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                  | **Description**                                                          |
| type <br /> *required*        | The resource type ("phonebookentry"). <br /> *String*                    |
| uri <br /> *read-only*        | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                    |
| created <br /> *read-only*    | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String* |
| name <br /> *required*        | Full name of the contact.  <br /> *String*                               |
| phoneNumber <br /> *required* | Phone number of the contact.  <br /> *String*                            |
| speedDial <br /> *optional*   | Assigned speed-dial for this contact (1-9999). <br /> *Integer*          |


#### List phone book entries

`GET /customers/{customerId}/phonebook`

Return a list of every `phonebookentry` on the customer account.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook?pageSize=2&page=1
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems" : 18,
  "pageSize" : 2,
  "page" : 1,
  "items" : [
    {
      "type" : "phonebookentry",
      "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook/716",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
      "name" : "Fred Mobile",
      "phoneNumber" : "07902000000",
      "speedDial" : 3
    }, {
      "type" : "phonebookentry",
      "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook/773",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:38:00.000+0000",
      "name" : "Sipcentric",
      "phoneNumber" : "01212854400"
    }
  ],
  "nextPage" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook?pageSize=2&page=2"
}
```


#### Read phone book entry

`GET /customers/{customerId}/phonebook/{entryId}`

Returns the instance of an individual `phonebookentry`.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook/773
```


```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type" : "phonebookentry",
  "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook/773",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:38:00.000+0000",
  "name" : "Sipcentric",
  "phoneNumber" : "01212854400"
}

```


#### Create phone book entry

`POST /customers/{customerId}/phonebook`

To create a new phone book entry, a representation of a `phonebookentry` must be POSTed to the `phonebook` resource. The newly created `phonebookentry` representation will then be included in the body of the response.

Example request:

```
POST https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook

{
  "type" : "phonebookentry",
  "name" : "Fred Mobile",
  "phoneNumber" : "07902000000",
  "speedDial" : 4
}
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 201 Created

{
  "type": "phonebookentry",
  "uri": "http://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook/716",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:38:00.000+0000",
  "name": "Fred Mobile",
  "phoneNumber": "07902000000",
  "speedDial": 4
}
```


#### Update phone book entry

`PUT /customers/{customerId}/phonebook/{entryId}`

To update a `phonebookentry`, a representation of the updated `phonebookentry` must be PUT to that instance resource. The updated `phonebookentry` representation will then be returned in the body of the response.

Example request:

```
PUT https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook/716

{
  "type" : "phonebookentry",
  "name" : "Fred Mobile",
  "phoneNumber" : "07825000000",
  "speedDial" : 12
}
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type": "phonebookentry",
  "uri": "http://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook/716",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:38:00.000+0000",
  "name": "Fred Mobile",
  "phoneNumber": "07825000000",
  "speedDial": 12
}
```


#### Delete phone book entry

`DELETE /customers/{customerId}/phonebook/{entryId}`

To delete a `phonebookentry`, a DELETE request must be made to the instance resource.

```
DELETE https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonebook/716
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```


### SMS

| Resource Information           |                                  |
|:-------------------------------|:---------------------------------|
| Location                       | /customers/{customerId}/sms      |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes                              |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour                        |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth                       |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get) <br /> [POST](#post) |
| JSON Representation(s)         | smsmessage                       |
| Additional Formats             | None                             |

The SMS sub-resource contains a record of every SMS message sent or received on the account, each item represented by a single `smsmessage`.

```
{
  "type" : "smsmessage",
  "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sms/253368",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.0000+0000",
  "direction" : "OUT",
  "from" : "01212854400",
  "to" : "07902000000",
  "body" : "Hey, this API is awesome!",
  "sendStatus" : "SENT",
  "deliveryStatus" : 1,
  "cost" : 0.1
}
```

| Type: *smsmessage*                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|:----------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                      | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| type <br /> *required*            | The resource type ("smsmessage"). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| uri <br /> *read-only*            | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| created <br /> *read-only*        | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| direction <br /> *read-only*      | Direction of the message. <br /> *Enum: IN, OUT*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| from <br /> *required*            | Name or phone number of the sender. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| to <br /> *required*              | Phone number of the recipient. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| body  <br /> *required*           | The message body. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| sendStatus <br /> *read-only*     | The send status of an outgoing message. <br /> *Enum: PENDING, SENT, FAILED*                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| deliveryStatus <br /> *read-only* | The delivery status of an outgoing message (where available): <br /> 1 = Delivered to handset <br />  2 = Rejected from handset <br /> 4 = Buffered in transit (phone probably off / out of reception) <br />  8 = Accepted by SMS carrier <br />  16 = Rejected by SMS carrier  <br /> *Integer* |
| cost <br /> *read-only*           | Message cost in GBP. <br /> *Float*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

#### List SMS messages

`GET /customers/{customerId}/sms`

Returns a list of every `smsmessage` on the account.

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sms?pageSize=2&page=1
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems": 188,
  "pageSize": 2,
  "page": 1,
  "items":  [
     {
      "type": "smsmessage",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sms/253369",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:38:00.000+0000",
      "direction": "IN",
      "from": "07902000000",
      "to": "01212854400",
      "body": "I know, it's great!",
      "cost": 0.0
    }, {
      "type": "smsmessage",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sms/253368",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
      "direction": "OUT",
      "from": "01212854400",
      "to": "07902000000",
      "body": "Hey, this API is awesome!",
      "sendStatus": "SENT",
      "deliveryStatus": 1,
      "cost": 0.1
    } ],
  "nextPage": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sms?pageSize=2&page=2"
}
```

#### Get SMS Message

`GET /customers/{customerId}/sms/{smsId}`

Returns the instance of a specific `smsmessage`.

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sms/253368
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type" : "smsmessage",
  "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sms/253368",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.0000+0000",
  "direction" : "OUT",
  "from" : "01212854400",
  "to" : "07902000000",
  "body" : "Hey, this API is awesome!",
  "sendStatus" : "SENT",
  "deliveryStatus" : 1,
  "cost" : 0.1
}
```

#### Send SMS

`POST /customers/{customerId}/sms`

To send a new SMS, simply POST a representation of a new `smsmessage` to the list resource. If successful, a representation of the newly created `smsmessage` will be returned in the body of the response.

```
POST https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sms

{
  "type": "smsmessage",
  "to": "07902000000",
  "from": "01212854400",
  "body": "Hey, this API is awesome!"
}
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 201 Created

{
  "type": "smsmessage",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sms/253368",
  "direction": "OUT",
  "from": "01212854400",
  "to": "07902000000",
  "body": "Hey, this API is awesome!",
  "sendStatus": "SENT",
  "cost": 0.1
}
```

### Calls

| Resource Information           |                                  |
|:-------------------------------|:---------------------------------|
| Location                       | /customers/{customerId}/calls    |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes                              |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour                        |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth                       |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get) <br /> [POST](#post) |
| JSON Representation(s)         | call                             |
| Additional Formats             | `text/csv`                       |

The calls sub-resource can be used to fetch the call history of an account, as well as to originate new calls. Each item is represented by a `call`.

The scope of a call can be:

- Local - between two endpoints on the same account.
- Domain - between two accounts on the Sipcentric network.
- External - to/from an external number on the PSTN.


```
{
  "type": "call",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/calls/7592317",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "scope": "EXTERNAL",
  "direction": "IN",
  "from": "07557000000",
  "to": "Sales Group <500>",
  "callStarted": "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "outcome": "NO_ANSWER",
  "duration": 0,
  "cost": 0,
  "callId": "ast01-1400142051.1562723",
  "linkedId": "ast01-1400142051.1562723",
  "links": {
    "recordings": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings?linkedId=ast01-1400142051.1562723"
  }
}
```

| Type: *call*                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|:-------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                   | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| type <br /> *required*         | The resource type ("call"). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| uri <br /> *read-only*         | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| created <br /> *read-only*     | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| scope <br /> *read-only*       | The scope of the call (see above for details). <br /> *Enum: LOCAL, DOMAIN, EXTERNAL*                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| direction <br /> *read-only*   | Direction of the call. <br /> *Enum: IN, OUT*                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| from <br /> *required*         | The name and/or phone number of the caller. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| to <br /> *required*           | The name and/or phone number of recipient. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| callStarted <br /> *read-only* | UTC time when the call started (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| outcome <br /> *read-only*     | The final outcome of the call. <br /> *Enum: ANSWERED, NO_ANSWER, BUSY, FAILED*                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| duration <br /> *read-only*    | The duration of the call in seconds. <br /> *Integer*                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| cost <br /> *read-only*        | The cost of the call in GBP. <br /> *Float*                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| callId <br /> *read-only*      | A unique ID for this call or call leg. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| linkedId <br /> *read-only*    | This ID is the same across all legs of an end-to-end call and can be used to group those multiple parts together. In an end-to-end call with multiple hops, the value of "linkedId" will always be equal to the "callId" of the first call in the chain. <br /> *String* |
| links[] <br /> *read-only*     | A collection of links to related sub-resources. <br /> *Array*                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

#### Get call history

`GET /customers/{customerId}/calls`

Making a GET request to the list resource will return a history of the calls made/received on an account. The returned list will contain a collection of `call` representations and may be filtered using the following (optional) query parameters:

| Query String Parameters | Type    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|:------------------------|:--------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| createdAfter            | String  | Include only records created after the specified. date/time                                                                                                                                    |
| createdBefore           | String  | Include only records created before the specified. date/time                                                                                                                                   |
| startedAfter            | String  | Include only records started after the specified. date/time                                                                                                                                    |
| startedBefore           | String  | Include only records started before the specified. date/time                                                                                                                                   |
| from                    | String  | Include only calls from a specific number. Currently supports exact match only (no wildcards).                                                                                                 |
| to                      | String  | Include only calls to a specific number. Currently supports exact match only (no wildcards).                                                                                                   |
| direction               | String  | Include only calls in a specific direction (in/out).                                                                                                                                           |
| includeLocal            | Boolean | Whether or not to include local (internal) calls. Default is 'false'. Note: only the outbound record is included for calls between endpoints, as the inbound record would be an exact replica. |
| endpointId              | Integer | Only include calls involving a specific endpoint ID. |


```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/calls?createdAfter=2014-03-10T13:30:00Z&pageSize=2&page=1
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems": 23686,
  "pageSize": 2,
  "page": 1,
  "items": [
    {
      "type": "call",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/calls/7592432",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:47:05.000+0000",
      "scope": "EXTERNAL",
      "direction": "IN",
      "from": "07557000000",
      "to": "Sales Group <500>",
      "callStarted": "2014-03-10T13:46:35.000+0000",
      "outcome": "NO_ANSWER",
      "duration": 0,
      "cost": 0,
      "callId": "ast01-1400142051.1562723",
      "linkedId": "ast01-1400142051.1562723",
      "links": {
        "recordings": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings?linkedId=ast01-1400142051.1562723"
      }
    }, {
      "type": "call",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/calls/7592134",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
      "scope": "EXTERNAL",
      "direction": "OUT",
      "from": "Greg Sanderson <103>",
      "to": "07557000000",
      "callStarted": "2014-03-10T13:35:51.000+0000",
      "outcome": "ANSWERED",
      "duration": 60,
      "cost": 0.09,
      "callId": "ast01-1401721105.2847099",
      "linkedId": "ast01-1401721105.2847099",
      "links": {
        "recordings": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings?linkedId=ast01-1401721105.2847099"
      }
    } ],
  "nextPage": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/calls?pageSize=2&page=2"
}
```

#### Originate call

`POST /customers/{customerId}/calls`

To originate a new call, you should POST a new `call` representation containing the properties shown below, to the calls list resource.

Example request:

```
POST https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/calls

{
  "type": "call",
  "endpoint": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/1234",
  "to": "07902000000"
}
```


```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
```

In the above example, a connection will first be established with the specified local endpoint ("endpoint"). We will then attempt to place a call to the remote destination ("to") and finally bridge the two together.

#### Phone Status (Do Not Disturb)

`GET /customers/{customerId}/endpoints/{endpointId}/phonestatus`

To check the current status of an endpoint, run the above - dndActive is a boolean that will confirm whether the endpoint is happy to accept calls.
NB: Regardless of how many devices are connected to an endpoint, if Do Not Disturb (dnd) is set, then no calls will be presented to the endpoint.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/5/endpoints/94/phonestatus
```

```response
{
	"type": "phonestatus",
	"id": "94",
	"uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/5/endpoints/94/phonestatus",
	"parent": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/5/endpoints/94",
	"dndActive": false
}
```


`PUT /customers/{customerId}/endpoints/{endpointId}/phonestatus`

To change the current status of an endpoint, please use a PUT as per the below.

Example request:

```
PUT  https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/5/endpoints/94/phonestatus

{
	"type": "phonestatus",
	"dndActive": true
}
```
```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
```

### Sounds

| Resource Information           |                                |
|:-------------------------------|:-------------------------------|
| Location                       | /customers/{customerId}/sounds |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes                            |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour                      |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth                     |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get) <br />             |
| JSON Representation(s)         | music <br /> prompt            |
| Additional Formats             | `audio/wav`                    |

The sounds sub-resource is a container for all sound files that have been added to an account. A sound file is in itself an abstract type and as such, each instance is represented by one of the concrete sub-types detailed below.

*Important: once a sound of a particular type has been created, its type cannot be changed - instead, it must be removed and re-added.*

#### Sound Types

##### Prompt

Represents a voice greeting or announcement and can be played, for example, on entry to a call queue or to give instructions about which keys to press in an IVR.

##### Music

Represents music which can be played when a caller is placed on hold or is waiting in a queue.

The properties of each sound type are listed below.


| Type: *prompt*             |                                                                          |
|:---------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**               | **Description**                                                          |
| type <br /> *required*     | The resource type ("prompt"). <br /> *String*                            |
| uri <br /> *read-only*     | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                    |
| created <br /> *read-only* | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String* |
| name <br /> *read-only*    | Name of the prompt. <br /> *String*                                      |
| size <br /> *read-only*    | Size of the underlying file in bytes. <br /> *Long*                      |

| Type: *music*              |                                                                          |
|:---------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**               | **Description**                                                          |
| type <br /> *required*     | The resource type ("music"). <br /> *String*                             |
| uri <br /> *read-only*     | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                    |
| created <br /> *read-only* | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String* |
| name <br /> *read-only*    | Name assigned to the music. <br /> *String*                              |
| size <br /> *read-only*    | Size of the file in bytes. <br /> *Integer*                              |
| enabled <br /> *required*  | Whether or not the music is enabled and will play.  <br /> *Boolean*     |


#### List sounds

`GET /customers/{customerId}/sounds`

Returns all sounds, optionally filtered by the following query parameters:

| Query String Parameters | Type   | Description                                               |
|:------------------------|:-------|:----------------------------------------------------------|
| type                    | String | Include only a specific type of sound file (prompt/music) |

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sounds?pageSize=2&page=1
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems" : 6,
  "pageSize" : 2,
  "page" : 1,
  "items" : [ {
    "type" : "prompt",
    "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sounds/1046",
    "created" : "2014-03-10T13:38:00.0000+0000",
    "name" : "thank-you-for-calling",
    "size" : 129612
  }, {
    "type" : "prompt",
    "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/5/sounds/1035",
    "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.0000+0000",
    "name" : "calls-may-be-recorded",
    "size" : 69426
  } ],
  "nextPage" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sounds?pageSize=2&page=2"
}
```

#### Get sound

`GET /customers/{customerId}/sounds/{soundId}`

Returns the instance of a specific sound file.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sounds/1035
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type" : "prompt",
  "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/sounds/1035",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.0000+0000",
  "name" : "calls-may-be-recorded",
  "size" : 69426
}
```

It is also possible to fetch a copy of the audio file itself, by including the `Accept` header:

`Accept: audio/wav`

See [Response Formats](#response-formats) for more information.


### Recordings

| Resource Information           |                                    |
|:-------------------------------|:-----------------------------------|
| Location                       | /customers/{customerId}/recordings |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes                                |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour                          |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth                         |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get)                        |
| JSON Representation(s)         | recording                          |
| Additional Formats             | `audio/wav`                        |

The recordings sub-resource provides a way to retrieve and manage the call recordings which are currently stored on an account. Each `recording` representation contains a set of properties which allow for easy indexing/searching based on the local endpoint, remote party ID, time of recording etc.

```exampleRepresentation
{
  "type": "recording",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings/1358371",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "direction": "IN",
  "partyId": "106",
  "started": "2014-05-14T15:41:25.000+0000",
  "size": 9615,
  "callId": "ast01-1400082083.1542464",
  "linkedId": "ast01-1400082083.1542464",
  "endpoint": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/2535"
}
```

| Type: *recording*            |                                                                                                                                                                   |
|:-----------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                 | **Description**                                                                                                                                                   |
| type <br /> *required*       | The resource type ("recording"). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                  |
| uri <br /> *read-only*       | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                             |
| created <br /> *read-only*   | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                                                                                          |
| direction <br /> *read-only* | Direction of the call.  <br /> *Enum: IN, OUT*                                                                                                                    |
| partyId <br /> *read-only*   | Username or phone number of the recorded party. <br /> *String*                                                                                                   |
| started <br /> *read-only*   | The time that the recorded call began (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                                                                                           |
| size <br /> *read-only*      | Size of the underlying file in bytes. <br /> *Integer*                                                                                                            |
| callId <br /> *read-only*    | A unique ID for each leg of the call. <br /> *String*                                                                                                             |
| linkedId <br /> *read-only*  | The unique ID of the call itself.  This ID is the same across all legs of a single call and can be used to link multiple legs of a call together. <br /> *String* |
| endpoint <br /> *read-only*  | URI to the endpoint that was recording the call. If the call was internal only the outbound endpoint URI will be returned <br /> *String*                         |


#### List recordings

`GET /customers/{customerId}/recordings`

Returns a list of recordings, optionally filtered by the following query parameters:

| Query String Parameters | Type   | Description                                                           |
|:------------------------|:-------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| createdAfter            | String | Include only recordings created after the specified date/time.        |
| createdBefore           | String | Include only recordings created before the specified date/time.       |
| startedAfter            | String | Include only recordings which started after the specified date/time.  |
| startedBefore           | String | Include only recordings which started before the specified date/time. |
| callId                  | String | Include only recordings relating to a specific call leg.              |
| linkedId                | String | Include only recordings relating to calls with the same linked ID.    |

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings?pageSize=2&page=1
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems" : 5788,
  "pageSize" : 2,
  "page" : 1,
  "items" : [
    {
      "type" : "recording",
      "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings/1358372",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T14:09:00.0000+0000",
      "direction" : "OUT",
      "partyId" : "07557000000",
      "started" : "2014-03-10T14:07:00.0000+0000",
      "size" : 97365,
      "callId" : "ast01-1401721105.2847099",
      "linkedId" : "ast01-1401721105.2847099",
      "endpoint" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/1928"
    }, {
      "type" : "recording",
      "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings/1358371",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:42:00.0000+0000",
      "direction" : "IN",
      "partyId" : "07557000000",
      "started" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.0000+0000",
      "size" : 9615,
      "callId" : "ast01-1400082083.1542464",
      "linkedId" : "ast01-1400082083.1542464",
      "endpoint" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/2535"
    } ],
  "nextPage" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings?pageSize=2&page=2"
}
```

#### Get recording

`GET /customers/{customerId}/recordings/{recordingId}`

Fetches the instance of a specific recording.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings/1358371
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type": "recording",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings/1358371",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:42:00.0000+0000",
  "direction" : "IN",
  "partyId" : "07557000000",
  "started" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.0000+0000",
  "size" : 9615,
  "callId" : "ast01-1400082083.1542464",
  "linkedId" : "ast01-1400082083.1542464",
  "endpoint" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/2535"
}
```

It is also possible to fetch a copy of the audio file itself, by including the `Accept` header:

`Accept: audio/wav`

See [Response Formats](#response-formats) for more information.


### Time Intervals

| Resource Information           |                                       |
|:-------------------------------|:--------------------------------------|
| Location                       | /customers/{customerId}/timeintervals |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes                                   |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour                             |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth                            |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get)                           |
| JSON Representation(s)         | timeinterval                          |
| Additional Formats             | None                                  |

A time interval (`timeinterval`) defines the single or set of time periods which together, constitute a recurring weekly/yearly event or work pattern - for example, "Out of Hours", "Public Holidays" or "My Cat's Birthday". Time intervals are used for matching against when defining time-based routing or access rules elsewhere on the system.

```exampleRepresentation
{
  "type": "timeinterval",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals/431",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "name": "Lunchtimes",
  "repeat": "WEEKLY",
  "includedTimes" : [ {
    "dayOfWeek" : "MON",
    "startTime" : "12:30",
    "endTime" : "13:29"
  }, {
    "dayOfWeek" : "TUE",
    "startTime" : "12:30",
    "endTime" : "13:29"
  }, {
    "dayOfWeek" : "WED",
    "startTime" : "12:30",
    "endTime" : "13:29"
  }, {
    "dayOfWeek" : "THU",
    "startTime" : "12:30",
    "endTime" : "13:29"
  }, {
    "dayOfWeek" : "FRI",
    "startTime" : "12:15",
    "endTime" : "13:14"
  } ]
}
```

| Type: *timeinterval*                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                                               | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| type <br /> *required*                                     | The resource type ("timeinterval"). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| uri <br /> *read-only*                                     | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| created <br /> *read-only*                                 | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| name <br /> *required*                                     | Name assigned to the time interval. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| repeat <br /> *required*                                   | The repeat frequency. <br /> *Enum: WEEKLY, YEARLY*                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| includedTimes[] <br /> *required*                          | The times included in this event or work pattern. Each item defines an inclusive block of time on a single day of the week or year, depending on the repeat frequency. Include as many items as required to define the entire pattern or set of events. <br /> *Array* |
| includedTimes[].dayOfWeek <br /> *conditionally required*  | Day of the week on which this block applies. Only valid when repeat = WEEKLY. <br /> *Enum: MON, TUE, WED, THU, FRI, SAT, SUN*                                                                                                                                         |
| includedTimes[].month <br /> *conditionally required*      | Used in conjunction with "dayOfMonth", defines the day of the year on which this block applies. Only valid when repeat = YEARLY. <br /> *Enum: JAN, FEB, MAR, APR, MAY, JUN, JUL, AUG, SEP, OCT, NOV, DEC*                                                             |
| includedTimes[].dayOfMonth <br /> *conditionally required* | Used in conjunction with "month", defines the day of the year on which this block applies. Only valid when repeat = YEARLY. <br /> *Integer*                                                                                                                           |
| includedTimes[].startTime <br /> *required*                | Inclusive start time (hh:mm format). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| includedTimes[].endTime <br /> *required*                  | Inclusive end time (hh:mm format). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |


#### List time intervals

`GET /customers/{customerId}/timeintervals`

Returns a list of previously defined time intervals on an account.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals?pageSize=2&page=1
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems" : 5,
  "pageSize" : 2,
  "page" : 1,
  "items" : [ {
    "type" : "timeinterval",
    "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals/32",
    "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
    "name" : "Christmas Day",
    "repeat" : "YEARLY",
    "includedTimes" : [ {
      "month" : "DEC",
      "dayOfMonth" : 25,
      "startTime" : "00:00",
      "endTime" : "23:59"
    } ]
  }, {
    "type" : "timeinterval",
    "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals/31",
    "created" : "2014-03-10T13:27:00.000+0000",
    "name" : "Office Hours",
    "repeat" : "WEEKLY",
    "includedTimes" : [ {
      "dayOfWeek" : "MON",
      "startTime" : "09:00",
      "endTime" : "17:29"
    }, {
      "dayOfWeek" : "TUE",
      "startTime" : "09:00",
      "endTime" : "17:29"
    }, {
      "dayOfWeek" : "WED",
      "startTime" : "09:00",
      "endTime" : "17:29"
    }, {
      "dayOfWeek" : "THU",
      "startTime" : "09:00",
      "endTime" : "17:29"
    }, {
      "dayOfWeek" : "FRI",
      "startTime" : "09:00",
      "endTime" : "16:59"
    } ]
  } ],
  "nextPage" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals?pageSize=2&page=2"
}
```

#### Get time interval

`GET /customers/{customerId}/timeintervals/{timeIntervalId}`

Returns the instance of a specific time interval.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals/431
```


```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type": "timeinterval",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals/431",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "name": "Lunchtimes",
  "repeat": "WEEKLY",
  "includedTimes" : [ {
    "dayOfWeek" : "MON",
    "startTime" : "12:30",
    "endTime" : "13:29"
  }, {
    "dayOfWeek" : "TUE",
    "startTime" : "12:30",
    "endTime" : "13:29"
  }, {
    "dayOfWeek" : "WED",
    "startTime" : "12:30",
    "endTime" : "13:29"
  }, {
    "dayOfWeek" : "THU",
    "startTime" : "12:30",
    "endTime" : "13:29"
  }, {
    "dayOfWeek" : "FRI",
    "startTime" : "12:15",
    "endTime" : "13:14"
  } ]
}
```

### Endpoints

| Resource Information           |                                                                          |
|:-------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Location                       | /customers/{customerId}/endpoints                                        |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes                                                                      |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour                                                                |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth                                                               |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get)                                                              |
| JSON Representation(s)         | phone <br /> virtual <br /> group <br /> queue <br /> ivr <br /> mailbox |
| Additional Formats             | None                                                                     |


Endpoints represent the internal destinations to which calls can be routed. Some endpoints are also able to initiate calls. An endpoint is itself an abstract type - each concrete sub-type, listed below, inherits a set of properties common to all endpoints (such as "name" and "shortNumber"), whilst adding its own properties according to its functionality.

*Important: once an endpoint of a particular type has been created, its type cannot be changed.*

#### Endpoint Types

##### Phone Extension

For connecting a SIP handset, softphone or mobile app and to enable direct inbound/outbound calls over the Internet. Typically, each member of the team will have their own extension, but multiple devices may be connected to a single extension. Each phone extension includes an associated voicemail user and SIP identity and supports features such as call recording, call forwarding and call waiting. It can also be a member of one or more ring groups and/or call queues. *Note: call charges apply to forwarded calls.*

##### Virtual Extension

Used for linking an existing mobile or landline number to the system as if it were a regular extension, with its own 3-digit number for receiving incoming calls. A virtual extension can be a member of a group/queue in exactly the same way as a regular phone extension, but does not include any of the additional features (voicemail, recording etc). *Note: call charges apply to forwarded calls.*

##### Ring Group

Calls directed to a ring group will be forked to multiple phone/virtual extensions either in parallel, or cascaded from one to another in series. If one or more phones are busy the others will still ring.

##### Call Queue

On entry, callers may be greeted with a welcome message, then played music (or a custom marketing message) until their call is answered. Options include setting the ring strategy, maximum wait time and failover destination for calls exceeding this limit.

##### IVR (Auto-Attendant)

Direct callers to the most appropriate person or department by giving them a number of options - e.g. "Press 1 for support, 2 for accounts" - or allow callers to reach individual extensions directly if they know the number.

##### Additional Mailbox

Although every phone extension has its own mailbox, sometimes additional mailboxes are required for things like out-of-hours messages or recorded information lines. Messages may be delivered via email or retrieved from any connected handset on the system, in the same way as any other mailbox.


The properties of each endpoint type are listed below.

| Type: *phone*                      |                                                                                                                   |
|:-----------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                       | **Description**                                                                                                   |
| type <br /> *required*             | The resource type ("phone"). <br /> *String*                                                                      |
| uri <br /> *read-only*             | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                                             |
| created <br /> *read-only*         | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                                          |
| shortNumber <br /> *required*      | The 3-digit internal number of this endpoint. <br /> *String*                                                     |
| name <br /> *required*             | Name assigned to the endpoint. <br /> *String*                                                                    |
| email <br /> *optional*            | Email address for notifications (e.g. voicemail). <br /> *String*                                                 |
| timeout <br /> *required*          | The time in seconds after which incoming calls should be considered unanswered (default 30). <br /> *Integer*     |
| callWaiting <br /> *required*      | Whether or not call waiting is enabled (default true). <br /> *Boolean*                                           |
| callRecording <br /> *required*    | Whether calls should be recorded for this extension and when (default OFF). <br /> *Enum: ALWAYS, OFF, ON_DEMAND* |
| voicemailEnabled <br /> *required* | Whether or not voicemail is enabled for this extension (default false). <br /> *Boolean*                          |
| links[] <br /> *read-only*         | A collection of links to related sub-resources. <br /> *Array*                                                    |

| Type: *virtual*                    |                                                                                                      |
|:-----------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                       | **Description**                                                                                      |
| type <br /> *required*             | The resource type ("virtual"). <br /> *String*                                                       |
| uri <br /> *read-only*             | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                                |
| created <br /> *read-only*         | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                             |
| shortNumber <br /> *required*      | The 3-digit internal number of this endpoint. <br /> *String*                                        |
| name <br /> *required*             | Name assigned to the endpoint. <br /> *String*                                                       |
| destination <br /> *required*      | External number to which calls should be forwarded. <br /> *String*                                  |
| timeout <br /> *required*          | The time in seconds after which calls should be considered unanswered (default 30). <br /> *Integer* |
| screeningEnabled <br /> *required* | Whether or not call screening is enabled (default false).  <br /> *Boolean*                          |

| Type: *group*                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|:--------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                          | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| type <br /> *required*                | The resource type ("group"). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| uri <br /> *read-only*                | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| created <br /> *read-only*            | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| shortNumber <br /> *required*         | The 3-digit internal number of this endpoint. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| name <br /> *required*                | Name assigned to the endpoint. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| memberTimeout <br /> *required*       | How long in seconds to try each member of the group (default 30). <br /> *Integer*                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| cascadeDelay <br /> *required*        | Delay in seconds before trying the next member of the group (default 0). A zero delay denotes a ring-all strategy (ring all members simultaneously). An overlap between members can be achieved by setting the delay greater than zero but less than "memberTimeout". <br /> *Integer* |
| failoverDestination <br /> *optional* | URI of another endpoint to which calls should be forwarded on eventual timeout or failure. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                             |

| Type: *queue*                 |                                                                                                      |
|:------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                  | **Description**                                                                                      |
| type <br /> *required*        | The resource type ("queue"). <br /> *String*                                                         |
| uri <br /> *read-only*        | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                                |
| created <br /> *read-only*    | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                             |
| shortNumber <br /> *required* | The 3-digit internal number of this endpoint. <br /> *String*                                        |
| name <br /> *required*        | Name assigned to the endpoint. <br /> *String*                                                       |
| maxWait <br /> *required*     | The maximum amount of time in seconds a caller can wait in the queue (default 600). <br /> *Integer* |

| Type: *ivr*                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|:---------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                                 | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| type <br /> *required*                       | The resource type ("ivr"). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| uri <br /> *read-only*                       | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| created <br /> *read-only*                   | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| shortNumber <br /> *required*                | The 3-digit internal number of this endpoint. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| name <br /> *required*                       | Name assigned to the endpoint. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| entrySound <br /> *required*                 | The URL of the [sound](https://developer.simwood.com/docs/direct/api/v1/#sounds) to play on entry. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| items[] <br /> *required*                    | The items in this IVR menu, i.e. the keys the user can press and the corresponding actions to perform. <br /> *Array*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| items[].key <br /> *required*                | The key the user can press. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| items[].action <br /> *required*             | The action to perform. <br /> *Object*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| items[].action.type <br /> *required*        | The type of action to perform. <br/> transfer - transfers the caller to an endpoint of type "phone" or "virtual", optionally playing a sound first <br/> playsound - plays a sound and hangs up <br/> goto - transfers the caller to another endpoint of type "ivr" <br/> dialext - prompts the user for an extension and then transfers the caller to that number <br /> *Enum: transfer, playsound, goto, dialext* |
| items[].action.destination <br /> *required* | The URL of the [endpoint](https://developer.simwood.com/docs/direct/api/v1/#endpoints) to transfer to. Note that the type of the endpoint must match the type of the action - "transfer" transfers to "phone" or "virtual" endpoints and "goto" tranfers to "ivr" endpoints.  Only valid when type = transfer or type = goto. <br /> *String*                                                                        |
| items[].action.playSound <br /> *optional*   | The URL of the [sound](https://developer.simwood.com/docs/direct/api/v1/#sounds) to play before transferring. Only valid when type = transfer. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| items[].action.display <br /> *optional*     | A string to prepend to the caller ID when transferring.  Only valid when type = transfer. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| items[].action.sound <br /> *required*       | The URL of the [sound](https://developer.simwood.com/docs/direct/api/v1/#sounds) to play before hanging up. Only valid when type = playsound. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| timeout <br /> *required*                    | The number of seconds to wait for a keypress after the initial message has been played (default 5). <br /> *Integer*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

| Type: *mailbox*               |                                                                          |
|:------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                  | **Description**                                                          |
| type <br /> *required*        | The resource type ("mailbox"). <br /> *String*                           |
| uri <br /> *read-only*        | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                    |
| created <br /> *read-only*    | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String* |
| shortNumber <br /> *required* | The 3-digit internal number of this endpoint. <br /> *String*            |
| name <br /> *required*        | Name assigned to the endpoint. <br /> *String*                           |
| email <br /> *required*       | Email address to which we should send new messages. <br /> *String*      |
| links[] <br /> *read-only*    | A collection of links to related sub-resources. <br /> *Array*           |


#### List endpoints

`GET /customers/{customerId}/endpoints`

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints?pageSize=2&page=1
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems": 25,
  "pageSize": 2,
  "page": 1,
  "items":  [
     {
      "type": "ivr",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/102",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:38:00.000+0000",
      "shortNumber": "001",
      "name": "Main IVR",
      "timeout": 4
    },
    {
      "type": "phone",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/101",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
      "shortNumber" : "102",
      "name" : "John Simmonds",
      "email" : "john@sipcentric.com",
      "timeout" : 30,
      "callWaiting" : true,
      "callRecording" : "ALWAYS",
      "voicemailEnabled" : true
    }
  ],
  "nextPage": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints?pageSize=1&page=2"
}
```

#### Get endpoint

`GET /customers/{customerId}/endpoints/{endpointID}`

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/101
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type": "phone",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/101",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "shortNumber" : "102",
  "name" : "John Simmonds",
  "email" : "john@sipcentric.com",
  "timeout" : 30,
  "callWaiting" : true,
  "callRecording" : "ALWAYS",
  "voicemailEnabled" : true,
  "links" : {
    "sip" : "http://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/101/sip",
    "voicemail" : "http://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/101/voicemail"
  }  
}
```

### Phone Numbers

| Resource Information           |                                      |
|:-------------------------------|:-------------------------------------|
| Location                       | /customers/{customerId}/phonenumbers |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes                                  |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour                            |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth                           |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get)                          |
| JSON Representation(s)         | did                                  |
| Additional Formats             | None                                 |

Phone numbers provide a route into the system from outside - they can support calls and optionally SMS messages, where available. Each inbound number is represented by a `did`.

```exampleRepresentation
{
  "type" : "did",
  "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonenumbers/50",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "number" : "01212854400",
  "identifier" : "",
  "destination" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/101",
  "smsEnabled" : true,
  "smsAllowIncoming" : true,
  "smsNotificationEmail" : "support@sipcentric.com",
  "smsNotificationUrl" : "https://example.com/sms",
  "faxEnabled" : false,
  "routingRules" : [ {
    "timeInterval" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals/594",
    "destination" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/102"
  }, {
    "timeInterval" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals/625",
    "destination" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/102"
  }, {
    "timeInterval" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals/704",
    "destination" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/102"
  } ]
}
```

| Type: *did*                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|:-------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                                     | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| type <br /> *required*                           | The resource type ("did"). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| uri <br /> *read-only*                           | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| created <br /> *read-only*                       | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| number <br /> *read-only*                        | The phone number in E.164 format. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| identifier <br /> *optional*                     | An optional label which is prefixed to the caller ID name on incoming calls to identify which number was called. Useful when multiple numbers each route to the same internal endpoint. <br /> *String*                                                                                |
| destination <br /> *optional*                    | The URI of the internal endpoint to which calls to this number will be routed by default. Valid only if faxEnabled = false. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                            |
| smsEnabled <br /> *read-only*                    | Determines whether SMS functionality is supported on this number. Only certain numbers will have SMS capabilities. It is not possible to receive SMS messages on ported numbers. <br /> *Boolean*                                                                                      |
| smsAllowIncoming <br /> *conditionally required* | A user may choose whether to allow or disallow incoming messages. Valid only if smsEnabled = true. <br /> *Boolean*                                                                                                                                                                    |
| smsNotificationEmail <br /> *optional*           | The email address to which we should send incoming SMS notifications. Valid only if smsEnabled = true. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                 |
| smsNotificationUrl <br /> *optional*             | When an SMS is received to this number, we will send a POST to the specified URL and include the following form encoded parameters: "to", "from", "body", "udh" (user data header - used for linking concatenated messages together). Valid only if smsEnabled = true. <br /> *String* |
| faxEnabled <br /> *required*                     | Whether this number should be designated for fax-to-email. It is not currently possible to receive both voice calls and faxes to a single number - therefore, "faxEnabled" and "destination" are mutually exclusive. <br /> *Boolean*                                                  |
| faxNotificationEmail <br /> *optional*           | The email address to which we should send incoming faxes (converted to PDF). Valid only if faxEnabled = true.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| routingRules[] <br /> *optional*                 | Time-based routing rules (exceptions) that apply to this number. <br /> *Array*                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| routingRules[].timeInterval <br /> *required*    | URI of the time interval during which this rule applies. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| routingRules[].destination <br /> *required*     | URI of endpoint to which calls during the matched time interval should routed. <br /> *String*                                                                                                                                                                                         |


#### List phone numbers

`GET /customers/{customerId}/phonenumbers`

Returns a list of all phone numbers on a customer account.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonenumbers?pageSize=2&page=1
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems" : 15,
  "pageSize" : 2,
  "page" : 1,
  "items" : [ {
    "type" : "did",
    "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonenumbers/47",
    "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
    "number" : "01212854400",
    "identifier" : "Main",
    "smsEnabled" : true,
    "smsAllowIncoming" : true,
    "smsNotificationEmail" : "contact@fredbloggs.com",
    "smsNotificationUrl" : "https://example.com/sms",
    "faxEnabled" : false
  }, {
    "type" : "did",
    "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonenumbers/50",
    "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
    "number" : "01212854411",
    "identifier" : "",
    "destination" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/101",
    "smsEnabled" : true,
    "smsAllowIncoming" : true,
    "smsNotificationEmail" : "support@sipcentric.com",
    "smsNotificationUrl" : "https://example.com/sms",
    "faxEnabled" : false,
    "routingRules" : [ {
      "timeInterval" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals/594",
      "destination" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/102"
    }, {
      "timeInterval" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals/625",
      "destination" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/102"
    }, {
      "timeInterval" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/timeintervals/704",
      "destination" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/endpoints/102"
    } ]
  } ],
  "nextPage" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonenumbers?pageSize=2&page=2"
}
```

#### Get phone number

`GET /customers/{customerId}/phonenumbers/{numberId}`

Retrieves the instance of a specific phone number.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonenumbers/47
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type" : "did",
  "uri" : "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/phonenumbers/47",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "number" : "01212854400",
  "identifier" : "Main",
  "smsEnabled" : true,
  "smsAllowIncoming" : true,
  "smsNotificationEmail" : "contact@fredbloggs.com",
  "smsNotificationUrl" : "https://example.com/sms",
  "faxEnabled" : false
}
```

### Outgoing Caller IDs

| Resource Information           |                                           |
|:-------------------------------|:------------------------------------------|
| Location                       | /customers/{customerId}/outgoingcallerids |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes                                       |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour                                 |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth                                |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get)                               |
| JSON Representation(s)         | outgoingcallerid                          |
| Additional Formats             | None                                      |

Usually, when making calls or sending SMS messages from an account, the outgoing ID should be set to one of the phone numbers on that account. It is possible, however, to use a name (in the case of SMS) or a number which is hosted elsewhere, as long as ownership can be verified. Once a custom caller ID has been requested and approved by us it will appear here, represented by an `outgoingcallerid`.

```exampleRepresentation
{
  "type": "outgoingcallerid",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/outgoingcallerids/114",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "number": "07932000000",
  "allowCalls": false,
  "allowSms": true
}
```

| Type: *outgoingcallerid*      |                                                                                         |
|:------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                  | **Description**                                                                         |
| type <br /> *required*        | The resource type ("outgoingcallerid"). <br /> *String*                                 |
| uri <br /> *read-only*        | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                   |
| created <br /> *read-only*    | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                |
| number <br /> *read-only*     | Name or number to be displayed for outgoing calls and/or messages. <br /> *String*      |
| allowCalls <br /> *read-only* | Whether the name/number has been approved for use with outgoing calls. <br /> *Boolean* |
| allowSms <br /> *read-only*   | Whether the name/number has been approved for use with outgoing SMS. <br /> *Boolean*   |


#### List outgoing caller ids

`GET /customers/{customerId}/outgoingcallerids`

Lists the IDs which have been approved for use on the account.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/outgoingcallerids
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems": 2,
  "pageSize": 20,
  "page": 1,
  "items":  [
    {
      "type": "outgoingcallerid",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/outgoingcallerids/115",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
      "number": "Sipcentric",
      "allowCalls": false,
      "allowSms": true
    },
    {
      "type": "outgoingcallerid",
      "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/outgoingcallerids/114",
      "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
      "number": "01212854411",
      "allowCalls": true,
      "allowSms": true
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Get outgoing caller id

`GET /customers/{customerId}/outgoingcallerids/{id}`

Get the instance of a specific caller ID.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/outgoingcallerids/114
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type": "outgoingcallerid",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/outgoingcallerids/114",
  "created" : "2014-03-10T13:37:00.000+0000",
  "number": "01212854411",
  "allowCalls": true,
  "allowSms": true
}
```

### Credit Status

| Resource Information           |                                      |
|:-------------------------------|:-------------------------------------|
| Location                       | /customers/{customerId}/creditstatus |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes                                  |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour                            |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth                           |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get)                          |
| JSON Representation(s)         | creditstatus                         |
| Additional Formats             | None                                 |

The credit status sub-resource returns the current call credit status of an account, represented by a `creditstatus` instance.

```exampleRepresentation
{
  "type": "creditstatus",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/creditstatus",
  "accountType": "PREPAID",
  "creditRemaining": 19.571
}
```

| Type: *creditstatus*           |                                                       |
|:-------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                   | **Description**                                       |
| type <br /> *read-only*        | The resource type ("creditstatus") <br /> *String*    |
| uri <br /> *read-only*         | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                 |
| accountType <br /> *read-only* | The type of account. <br /> *Enum: PREPAID, POSTPAID* |
| balance <br /> *read-only*     | Balance on the account <br /> *Float*                 |

#### Get credit status

`GET /customers/{customerId}/creditstatus`

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/creditstatus
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type": "creditstatus",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/creditstatus",
  "accountType": "PREPAID",
  "balance": 19.571
}
```

### Call Bundles

| Resource Information           |                                     |
|:-------------------------------|:------------------------------------|
| Location                       | /customers/{customerId}/callbundles |
| Rate Limited?                  | Yes                                 |
| Requests per rate limit window | 1200/hour                           |
| Authentication                 | Basic Auth                          |
| HTTP Method(s)                 | [GET](#get)                         |
| JSON Representation(s)         | customerbundle                      |
| Additional Formats             | None                                |

The call bundles sub-resource contains all bundles which have been added to an account - each is represented by a `customerbundle` and includes the current status, as well as used and remaining minutes.

```exampleRepresentation
    {
      type: "customerbundle",
      uri: "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/callbundles/1040",
      created: "2014-03-01T00:00:00.000+0000",
      name: "1000 Mins - UK Local/National",
      inclusiveMins: 1000,
      priceMonthly: 5,
      validFrom: "2014-03-01T00:00:00.000+0000",
      validTo: "2014-03-31T23:59:59.999+0000",
      usedMins: 57,
      availableMins: 943,
      autoRenew: true,
      status: "ACTIVE"
    }
```

| Type: *customerbundle*           |                                                                                           |
|:---------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**                     | **Description**                                                                           |
| type <br /> *required*           | The resource type ("customerbundle"). <br /> *String*                                     |
| uri <br /> *read-only*           | URI of this instance. <br /> *String*                                                     |
| created <br /> *read-only*       | UTC time when the resource was created (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                  |
| name <br /> *read-only*          | The bundle name. <br /> *String*                                                          |
| inclusiveMins <br /> *read-only* | The number of minutes to predefined destinations included in the bundle. <br /> *Integer* |
| priceMonthly <br /> *read-only*  | The monthly renewal cost in GBP. <br /> *Integer*                                         |
| validFrom <br /> *read-only*     | UTC time from which the bundle is valid (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                 |
| validTo <br /> *read-only*       | UTC time when the bundle expires (ISO8601 format). <br /> *String*                        |
| usedMins <br /> *read-only*      | The number of minutes used up. <br /> *Integer*                                           |
| availableMins <br /> *read-only* | The number of minutes remaining. <br /> *Integer*                                         |
| autoRenew <br /> *required*      | Whether the bundle is set to automatically renew. <br /> *Boolean*                        |
| status <br /> *read-only*        | The current status of the bundle. <br /> *Enum: ACTIVE, EXPIRED*                          |

#### List call bundles

`GET /customers/{customerId}/callbundles`

List all bundles added to an account.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/callbundles
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "totalItems": 1,
  "pageSize": 20,
  "page": 1,
  "items":  [
     {
      type: "customerbundle",
      uri: "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/callbundles/1040",
      created: "2014-03-01T00:00:00.000+0000",
      name: "1000 Mins - UK Local/National",
      inclusiveMins: 1000,
      priceMonthly: 5,
      validFrom: "2014-03-01T00:00:00.000+0000",
      validTo: "2014-03-31T23:59:59.999+0000",
      usedMins: 57,
      availableMins: 943,
      autoRenew: true,
      status: "ACTIVE"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Get call bundle

`GET /customers/{customerId}/callbundles/{bundleId}`

Fetches the instance of a specific customer bundle.

Example request:

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/callbundles/1040
```

```response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
  "type": "customerbundle",
  "uri": "https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/callbundles/1040",
  "created": "2014-03-01T00:00:00.000+0000",
  "name": "1000 Mins - Local/National (Free)",
  "inclusiveMins": 1000,
  "priceMonthly": 5,
  "validFrom": "2014-03-01T00:00:00.000+0000",
  "validTo": "2014-03-31T23:59:59.999+0000",
  "usedMins": 57,
  "availableMins": 943,
  "autoRenew": true,
  "status": "ACTIVE"
}
```

## Global Resources

### Token Generator

In some situations it's not possible to use basic authentication in a GET request, such as downloading a call recording in a client's browser.

To solve this issue we have added a token generator for pre-authenticating these requests. This will return a single-use token for accessing any readonly resources
you would normally have to authenticate for.

#### Get token

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/tokengenerator

{
  "type": "authtoken",
  "id": "318f9a6d-162e-4d46-89d2-3d7cb2f4db16",
  "created": "2014-07-11T15:11:12.477+0000",
  "expires": "2014-07-11T16:11:12.477+0000"
}
```

You can now use this token to get a call recording using the `tokenid` parameter in the GET request:

```
https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/customers/25/recordings/242348.wav?tokenid=318f9a6d-162e-4d46-89d2-3d7cb2f4db16
```

Anyone that tried to use the request again will get a 401 Unauthorized. This prevents replay attacks from getting any data.

### Stream

```
GET https://pbx.sipcentric.com/api/v1/stream
```

You can create a standing HTTP connection to our API for live streaming events. This means you can process events in near real time, without having to poll other resources and potentially avoid hitting request limits. Data is returned as JSON objects.

Currently the following is available via the streaming API:

- Incoming call notifications
- Incoming SMS messages
- SMS delivery receipts

Example object:

```
{
  "event": "incomingcall",
  "location": null,
  "values": {
    "callerIdNumber": "01234567890",
    "callerIdName": "Support",
    "endpoint": "/customers/325/endpoints/6874"
  }
}
```

#### Connecting

To work with the streaming API you will need to create an indefinite HTTP GET request and process the data as it is received. Our API will hold the connection open as long as possible. But if the connection does disconnect due to network / client issues you should handle this by reconnecting as soon as possible. We also send a heartbeat object every 60 seconds which helps keep the connection open and you can also check for this object and reconnect if it isn't received within a suitable time period.

The streaming API requires you to authenticate with Basic Authentication. The stream data you receive depends on the user you authenticate with.

The best way to work with the Stream in JavaScript/Node.js is to use the [Atmosphere client](https://github.com/Atmosphere/atmosphere-javascript) which establishes the connection and handles disconnects automatically.

Most HTTP client libraries let you handle the connection as a stream. Which allows you to process the data as it is received.

#### Responses

All of the event objects are in a standard format:

```
{
  "event": ...,
  "location": ...,
  "values":{ ... }
}
```


Current events that can be consumed:

- incomingcall
- smsreceived
- smsdelivered

Event values:

| Type: *incomingcall* |                                      |
|:---------------------|:-------------------------------------|
| **Property**         | **Description**                      |
| callerIdNumber       | The callers number. <br /> *String*  |
| callerIdName         | Caller ID <br /> *String*            |
| endpoint             | URI of the endpoint. <br /> *String* |

| Type: *smsreceived* |                                                             |
|:--------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Property**        | **Description**                                             |
| to                  | The public number the SMS was delivered to. <br /> *String* |
| from                | The number the SMS was received from <br /> *String*        |
| excerpt             | Summary of message. <br /> *String*                         |

| Type: *smsdelivered* |                                         |
|:---------------------|:----------------------------------------|
| **Property**         | **Description**                         |
| None                 | No values are returned for this object. |
